Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. I'm talking
with at Ana Salinas Hasso
who is a member of
the knowledge technologies group at
Microsoft research. She's got a
master's degree in computer science
from the university of Texas.
How are you? Good. How
are you, Scott? I'm great.
Thanks for, for coming on.
You're also a podcaster and
you've done a lot of
different shows. Yes, that's correct.
I host the women in
tech show, which is a
weekly podcast And you've been
guests on like software engineering
daily and stuff like that.
And people can check out
the women in tech show.com.
Great URL. Thank you. Did
you want to know a
bit about the show? Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, I assume
it's about women in tech.
Yes. So as a software
engineer, when I come to
work everyday, I still see
that there are not enough
women working in technology. However,
there are a few women
who are working on fantastic
projects and defining the future
of technology. And what I
have found is that these
women often get invited to
give the diversity talk at
conferences, to the extent that
on their website, that they
specify that they do talks,
but to not ask them
to give the diversity talk.
So the goal of the
women in tech show is
to provide a platform where
they talk about technology and
the products that they are
building instead of the women
in tech concept and what
it feels like to be
a women in tech. I
see. So people are getting,
you know, like when people
like me might be calling
their, the women that they
know in tech and say,
Oh yeah, come and talk
about diversity in technology. And,
and it's like, well, no,
I want to talk about
cool stuff. I'm building. Cause
it's cool. Exactly. That's what's
happening in the diversity talk.
I'm not against that talk,
but I think we have
been overdoing it a bit.
And my thought is that
if we have more women
talking about technology, more people
are going to learn from
them. And it's not going
to be a rare thing
to see a women talking
about tech. So it'll help.
Yeah. So this will help
tackle the unconscious bias problems
and things like that. Yeah.
Well I hope it will
that we're doing a small,
I mean, I'm doing a
small part as well. We've
had a lot of different
women and people of color
on the show because they
are doing cool stuff. Not
because we're trying to fill
some kind of, some kind
of quota. I don't want
to create a world of
what I call power Rangers.
Diversity. Have you ever seen
the power Rangers team? Yes
I have. Yeah. So with
the power Rangers, whenever they
build a team, there's one
of each and you can't
have two of one kind
because you know, it wouldn't
be the power Rangers. If
it didn't look like a
weird pie chart of diversity.
So instead we want them
doing cool stuff and talking
about cool stuff. So what
cool stuff are you working
on? Cause you've changed your
career a little bit from,
from one technology to another.
Yes. So I joined Microsoft
full time. It was my
first full time job back
in June, 2014. And for two
years I was working on
web applications on services. And
when I went to velocity
last year, which is a
conference about web performance and
dev ops, there was this
talk that really caught my
attention from Patrick Meenan, who
is the creator of the
webpage test and works on
Chrome and dev tools. And
Tammy Everts our research at
SOASTA and their talk was
using machine learning to predict
bounce rate and conversions. So
what I liked about this
talk is that Patrick Meenan
was saying, I don't have
a background in machine learning.
I don't have a PhD
in AI, but the tools
are very accessible. Now with
this library from Python called
psychic learn. So he was
showing the code and he
said, here it is eight
lines of Python and we're
running a machine learning algorithm.
So at that moment, it
clicked to me that this
is going to be very
big. And it's the next
revolution in technology. Did this
make you want to just
pivot your career and change
direction right away? That was
the moment It started. It
made me think certainly. And
then right after that, Microsoft
announced their big investment in
artificial intelligence and bringing AI
into our products and there's
even an AI school now.
So that's when I started
thinking it's right now, when
it's happening, the tools are
very accessible. There are lots
of resources online to learn
this topic. So I that's
when I decided to focus
on this because it's the
next wave of technology and
the impact that it's going
to have in our lives
is going to be so,
And you were doing, you're
doing web dev at Microsoft
at that point when you
decided to switch. Yes. Yes.
So I was working on
previously power apps in the
web portion of it. So
it was services and C-sharp
and the front end type
script, HTML knockout. And before
that I was working on
an internal project, which was
angular 1.0 and similar stock
type script C-sharp. So, so
what I had switched from
was from working on an
internal project to our consumer
facing project, because I wanted
to experience that side of
a product. And it's very
different because the first one
goes from being a hundred
users or 200 and the
other one, two thousands. And
then seeing that growth Did,
when I think of Microsoft
research, I think of people
with advanced degrees and PhDs,
and I have to say,
and this is my own
internal kind of bias because
I went to a community
college, which is like a
technical school. I don't have
a advanced degree. I have
a bachelor's degree. I feel,
I feel intimidated because I
think everyone is doctor this
and doctor that now you
have a master's degree, which
is an advanced degree. Are
you working on your PhD?
And are you, how do
you feel? Is everyone on
the team, a PhD type
person? I'm not working on
a PhD. I did do
a master's in computer science.
My, my team is very
mixed. There are several PhD
people, but I've been on
the industry 15 or 20
years. One of them studied
linguistics and he's from Germany
and built the, the auto,
correct? Not the auto, correct.
The language checks in word,
you build that. And then
there's another PhD who focused
on NLP. But what I'm
seeing now after Microsoft's decision
to democratize AI throughout the
company, is that we're bringing
highly experienced software engineers and
developers who can help integrate
research technologies into products while
also getting exposed to things
like machine learning and deep
learning, because these are now
so accessible. Even several people
say you don't need a
PhD. Some Aldman had a
QA and he said, no,
you don't need a PhD
to do this. You just
need to be motivated and
start getting exposed to it.
We have a lot of
tools right now, like toggle,
which makes a diverse set
of data sets available that
you can play with. Can
you spell that tool? So
Cabo is K a G
G L E Huh. Okay.
And this is a kaggle.com
a whole website around it.
There's a whole, it's a
whole world of data science.
Yes. And we see people
contributing Leora that have no
backgrounds and PhDs and in
AI and things like that
because you, you can divide
it in two areas. For
example, one is creating those
algorithms and optimizing them. And
the other area is using
those algorithms and tweaking some
things like the parameters to
solve problems like detecting cancer
in x-ray images and things
like that. Interesting. So when
I think of kind of
the multiple layers, there's, there's
artificial intelligence in the general
sense, there's machine learning. As
we get more specifically in
what we think of as
machine learning right now, and
then there's this concept of
deep learning for, for many
of us, myself, I'll speak
for myself. It's a, it's
a black box like you're
describing, you know, I can
write a couple of lines
of Python. I put it
into a black box. And
then from my perspective, a
miracle happens and someone with
a PhD understands that, should
I strive to understand the
internals or how deep does
one need to go? How
deep do you have to
go before you say, all
right. And then a miracle
happens, like how many layers
of abstraction down do you
go? So the first layer
of that, I think of
as the big umbrella is
artificial intelligence, which is making
machines intelligent. And under this
umbrella, we have the machine
learning umbrella, which is a
way of teaching machines to
do intelligent tasks, like recognizing
images, processing, natural language. And
then inside machine learning, we
have deep learning, which is
using several layers of neural
networks. It's just a different
yet another type of teaching
machines, intelligent tasks, but without
having to have expertise on
defining features. So for example,
in machine learning, if you're
trying to solve a problem,
like detecting spam, if I'm
doing it, the machine learning
way, I specify features, which
are characteristics that will help
me know if something is
spam. For example, if it
contains a certain word like
free food or something, or
No free money, right. Pay
for help. So, so a
person is specifying those characteristics
while in deep learning, why
it's become very big and
accessible is that those features
are automatically detected by an
algorithm. So to answer your
question, how did you need
to go? You don't need
to go really deep as
to understanding the mathematics in
the models, but you need
to have some depth as
to what the algorithm is
doing. And some implications like,
do they perform well with
more data? So I think
there's a middle ground. There's
definitely aligned between the PhD
and more about applied machine
learning. I like that. That's
a good point. And you
know, that's interesting that you
point that out because you
said applied machine learning, which
seems like the thing I
would be interested in. So
let me see if I
can parse this a little
bit and we'll come back
to that. So, so machine
learning you said is, you
know, it's an approach to
go towards artificial intelligence. So
you take algorithms, you parse
data, you learn from it
and you train it. You
train the system while deep
learning is a different algorithmic
approach. We're using neural networks
where you can weigh input
and then decide whether or
not something is correct. Based
on that, on that weighing,
I don't necessarily need to
understand the advanced math, but
I do need to understand
what's good. Like if I
decide to do a face
tracking system, I shouldn't just
blindly throw faces at, at
a, at an API somewhere
and hope it works out.
I should do a little
research and understand if I
am I using an appropriate
tool for the job. And
this is always open. If,
if you have more questions
about why a certain function
is working, you can always
decide to read about it
in more detail about the
math, if you're interested in
it, but for applying machine
learning to solve interesting problems,
you don't need to go
really deep. Okay, there's this,
there's this really helpful website
called fast.ai. And they're, they're
actually offering a free seven
lesson course on deep learning.
And this is done by
Jeremy Howard and Rachel Thomas. Jeremy is
one of the top contributors
at Kaggle. And I think
he, he was ahead data
scientists there and their philosophy
is to make deep learning
on cool again, by, by
this, they mean that a
lot of people and experts,
like you said, there are
a lot of buzzwords and
they make you think you
need thousands of GPU and
millions of data. When in
reality, that is not true.
So this opens the door
to people in developing countries
to consider using this tools
to solve problems in their
communities. Because what Jeremy and
Rachel say is the people
in Silicon Valley. They're not
to be thinking about some
village in a third world
country to solve their problem.
They're using AI. So that's
why everybody should start getting
exposed to this because it's
a very powerful tool. Wow.
Yeah. So fast.ai. It's a
seven week course in part
one practical, deep learning for
coders is really great. I
liked the way that they
said this, because this is,
this is literally talking to
me here. It says, learn
how to build models without
needing graduate level math, but
without dumbing, anything down and
it's free, you can actually
go to fast.ai, go to
chorus.fast AI and check that
out. What a great resource.
Thank you. Yeah. It's a
great resources. One of the
best ones that I've found.
Okay. So then you found
yourself in Microsoft research and
you found that balance between,
you know, the internals of
AI and then what you
called applied machine learning, which
is you understand enough, and
then you can start applying
it practically. And what I
liked about that word applied,
when I think about it
in my own experiences, I
have a degree in software
engineering and you have a
degree in computer science. Have
you ever thought about the
difference between those two practices
as being distinct? Yes, definitely.
Computer science can be more
theoretical, more, more about the
math and proving theorems, specially
in areas like cryptography and
theory of computation while software
engineering is about building high
quality software. That's maintainable understandable
extendable, and it's a really
important set of skills to
have sovereign engineering. Certainly. Yeah.
I've been talking with a
number of people about how
young people learn about how
new software people learn and
Maria on my team. And
I both feel that in
some instances, and this is
a general, a general statement.
So not trying to pick
on anyone who has a
particular degree, but in some
instances, people can come out
of school with a computer
science degree, but not understand
how to write software. Well,
you know, and that can
be a real problem. It's
where we can be setting
people up for failure. I
totally agree with that. And
if you're coming from a
traditional university background, for example,
I did a study abroad
in UT Austin. And also
my undergrad is from Mexico.
There are topic courses which
allow you to choose from
several options and they have
some software engineering courses. But
when I was studying, at
least they're not mandatory. So
you get to choose them.
But in this course, as
they, I learned using get
pair programming, test driven development.
So there are certainly ways
to learn software engineering principles
while you're at school, but
sometimes you have to choose
them for yourself. And another
thing that you can do
is do an internship before
coming full time, because it's
a good 12 week program
where you can learn these
principles before you graduate. Yeah.
It's, it's, it's difficult if
you find yourself with a
deep understanding of the internals
of computers, but most I
am in my experience, most
people then they, when they
do their work at, in
college, it's not always in
groups. So computers is as
much about how they work
as it is about how
to work with other humans.
And if you take someone
who's done six years of
deep research alone in the
library and then drop them
on a, on a diverse
team of 15 people from
all over the world, it
can be an overwhelming experience
to learn how to actually
ship. And this is why
I think we're seeing an
interesting balance at Microsoft research
where more experienced software engineers
and developers are collaborating with
researchers because there's an X,
there's an exchange of knowledge
happening, researchers, all learning about
programming practices and they software
engineers are learning about the
research side of things like
artificial intelligence and things like
that. Interesting. So when I
think of Microsoft research though,
I assume that you're, I
dunno, you're all off making
deep thoughts, right. But you
had said something about the
democratization of AI. Is there
a change of Microsoft research
that has you shipping on
a regular basis? Yeah. So
Santiago recently announced this democratize
AI initiative. What he means
by this is let's take
some of the research that
has been produced at Microsoft
research and embedded in our
products where, where it makes
sense, obviously. So for example,
my team successfully added machine
learning models to outlook and
dynamics. And one example of
where we see artificial intelligence
is if you receive a
message we can detect, Oh,
is this a meeting request?
Or for example, in the
dynamics CRM, you can have
intelligence in, will this lead
me to a sale or
not. And based on this,
you can prioritize which customers
to focus on if you
want. So this is the
whole democratize AI push it's
allowed Merck, not merging two
organizations, but certainly have a
better collaboration to build more
intelligent, more intelligent tools that
can enhance productivity. Does that
make you feel like you
have to find a balance
between the pressure of shipping
something and the time required
to really deeply think about
something and research something? Yes.
There's definitely a balance there
that needs to be taken
into account. I would feel
a little overwhelmed. I would
feel like, wait a second.
I thought I was supposed
to go off and think
deeply and research this, and
now you're making me ship.
There's actually a balance there
because like I mentioned is
finding research that has been
produced and just see if
it's useful in a product.
So there, there's certainly still
a focus in doing research
without the pressure of shipping
something so that there are
the different sites still. And
this hasn't been a problem
for you in your career.
You found it to be
a, you know, a flexible
enough arrangement. Yes, yes. I
found, I found it to
be flexible enough. And what
I like right now is
that a lot of teams
are starting to use deep
learning. So right now what
I'm doing is I'm learning
about this technology and then
trying it out before building
something. So, so I have
a balance time to do
both things. Knowledge technologies group
is the group that you're
working on. And is this
one of many AI groups
within Microsoft research or they're
like a whole splinter groups
of different AIS? Yes. There's
a, a group for machine
translation, which is the people
that worked on the translator
app. And this app allows
you to, to speak to
the phone. And there's another
person that gets the translation
of what you're saying. So
you can be speaking in
English and then I can
see it on my phone
in Spanish. So that that's
one team. There's also the
machine teaching group, which is
about making machine learning tools
more accessible. So there are,
there are several groups and
you can find these groups
and the research areas. If
you go to the Microsoft
research website, it's very neatly
organized the areas of focus
that are available there Since
you work in close to
that, that team I'm as
a, as a person that
is interested in languages, but
never happy with my own
abilities with other languages. I'm
curious if you've noticed a
difference in the last five
or 10 years around machine
translation, because I think we've
all had that experience where
someone sent us something in
a different language and we
copy paste it into being
translator, Google translate, and someone,
someone, some native speaker could
smell that it wasn't right.
They could understand it, but
they go, that's not exactly
how you would say it.
Is it getting better? Have
we been sitting at like
80% and now we're getting
towards a hundred percent? Cause
it seems like it's getting
better, but at the same
time a native speaker can
always smell translation. Yes. I
think that's corrected. It's getting
better, but we still need
a little push on this
area because there are things
like slang and sarcasm that
are still difficult to detect.
But what I've been reading
about is that when the
approach was switched to deep
learning, there are better results,
but I haven't seen examples
of these results yet. So
I'll definitely take a look
at that. But what I
see from Google translate been
translated is that it's good.
But yes I can detect
it was not translated by
a human One day, one
day, we'll have the universal
translator where we can Skype
each speak our native language
and then it'll come out
nicely. Yes. Yes, I hope
so. What about the, we
talked about the different buzzwords,
artificial intelligence machine learning and
deep learning, and we kind
of broken them down so
that they aren't buzzwords anymore.
But what about the term
data science? It's a giant
field. It's a very vast
field. If someone had data
scientist on their resume, I
wouldn't know what that meant.
Yes. When I think data
scientist, I think a lot
of visualizations, but maybe that's
from the, the little exposure
that I've had here at
Microsoft. So it's more about
visualizing the data, but I
might be wrong and about
taking decisions based on this.
So I think it's a
little higher level than deep
learning and machine learning, but
I think there's some machine
learning involved in data science,
for example, clustering, I would
say. So I think it's
a little higher level. Yeah.
It seems very big. It
seems like the big tent,
because it's, it's, data-driven science,
it's trying to take other
giant, giant worlds like statistics
and data analysis in a
general term and saying, and
then now you just wrap
it all up. You wrap
up all these different things.
I'm a data scientist, but
I mean, I assume you've
got statistical learning. You've got
data mining, you've got machine
learning, you'd plug it into
it. Is it maybe it's
just being a statistician except
it's more fun to say
data scientists. Yes. That could
be. And since you brought
up data science, what I'm
thinking about now is an
important concept in all this
artificial intelligence and why diversity
is important is because we
have this data sense that
are gathered, but sometimes they
include diversity. And when I
was at Mtech a few
weeks ago at this AI
conference, there was a woman
from the film industry saying
I'm a minority, I'm a
black woman. So I am
a minority in the dataset
like who is who's building
this data sets because her
concern was this. This was
just an example. She brought
up. I don't know if
this is how it works,
but she's saying in LinkedIn,
if my data sets say
that white men get a
job in tech, what is
the recommendation system going to
be always, you're going to
recommend white men for those
positions. So she had a
concern about this. So a
lot of work needs to
be done, to think about
the data sense. And another
example we've seen is Snapchat.
Wasn't recognizing some people in
their filters. So this is
also why we should have
more diverse teams working in
AI because it's going to
be a pretty big area.
And we need people with
diverse backgrounds to raise these
questions and prove that the
algorithms don't work for certain
minorities. Yeah. This is a
really important thing. I think
that from a scientist scientific
perspective, this is important. And
the, the word that I
like to use diversity is
a great word, but I
really like the word inclusive.
If you include everybody, then
much better. Things are going
to happen. And we see
this as users. If you
go and Google, like, you
know, white teenager on Google,
and then look at the
images, you'll see one thing.
And if you Google black
teenager, you might see another
thing and you, you know,
you might want to understand,
well, why are those images
being chosen? But they're being
chosen because of the way
that the, the weighing system
of the artificial intelligence that
powers Google, right? And your
point about having the correct
dataset. When, when remember when
the connect came out very,
very early on, on the
Xbox, it couldn't see my,
my black wife. And she
was very frustrated that she
couldn't be seen by the
connect. And then for a
couple of firmware updates in
some beta testing later, when
they went and had all
different people from, you know,
different skin tones get looked
at, then suddenly she could
be seen by connect and
felt much happier about it.
But you can catch those
things early. I'm hearing you
say with a, with a
team that's inclusive. Yes. Because
if a team that's inclusive
is working on this, they'll,
they'll all have tried it
out and figured out, Oh,
it doesn't work for me.
Why? Exactly, exactly. That's a
really important thing to know.
So people should check out.
I'm hearing you say the
fast.ai, which is the free
course, and that's actually by
the, one of the individuals
in that team was number
two on the Kaggle contest,
Jeremy Howard. And then Rachel Thomas has
a PhD from Duke and
she is involved as on
F fast AI in those
courses as well. And that's
all free. Yes. And if
you want to start learning
machine learning, the one that
I highly recommend is intro
to machine learning from your
Udacity, because it's very hands
on throughout the course. And
the lectures are very short.
They're two minute videos, and
then you get to type
a code snippet and Python.
Plus you get to use
the Enron data set. So
it's very hands on, and
it's a really good intro
to this area for those
that are coming from a
software engineering background. Very cool.
And then people can check
out your podcast@thewomenintechshow.com and subscribe
on iTunes. Yes, that's correct.
Fantastic. Well, thank you so
much for chatting with me
today. Thank you for having
me, Scott. It was great
talking to you. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes, and we'll see you
again next week.